Hi, guys, a storage gateway definitely comes up on the exam, it's been around a while, but I didn't
cover it before because it's definitely very difficult to show in a lab environment.
But what I wanted to do instead is to just give you some diagrams and some slides and talk through what
Gateway is, because you just need a high level understanding of storage gateway and the three different
types of storage gateway so that, you know, when you get exam questions, which type of storage gateway
you should be using or whether you should be using a storage gateway at all.
So the first one is a file gateway.
So with a file gateway, the storage gateway here is actually an appliance.
This is a virtual appliance running on VMware or hypervisor within the corporate data center.
So an on premises environment and your servers on premise, while your application servers or your clients
or whatever are connecting to the storage gateway using either the network file system protocol NFC
or the server message block SMB.
So one of those two file level protocols.
Now the data can then be stored in multiple storage classes in the cloud.
So even as free standard standard infrequently accessed or one zone infrequently accessed, files are
stored as objects in S3, but they're presented as file systems within the storage gateway.
Now a local cache can provide low latency access to recently used data.
So you hit the cache first, see if the data's in the cache.
If not, then the data is going to be stored in S3.
So the bulk of your data is stored in S3.
Just a cache of the data is stored locally for low latency access.
So key things to remember.
This is file level, it's SMB or Neff's and the data is stored in S3, but it's cached locally for a
subset of the data, the recently used data.
Now remember, this is a virtual gateway, so it runs on Hyper V or VMware.
It can also run in, etc..
So far, Gateway provides a virtual on premises file server, enabling you to store and retrieve files
as objects and as free.
It can be used for on premises applications and for easy to resident applications that need files,
storage and free for object based workloads.
C Use for flat files only they're stored directly on S3 file.
Gateway offers SMB or NFC based access to data in S3 with local caching, and it supports those three
different tiers of all classes of S3 storage.
So it's very standard standard IÉ or one Xania.
It also supports Linux clients connecting to the gateway using manifest versions free and full, and
Windows clients connecting to the gateway using SMB versus versions two and three.
Maximum file size of an individual file is five terabytes.
That's the free limit.
We then have the volume gateway, so this is the second type.
So you have a file gateway.
This is the volume gateway.
And next we're going to cover the type gateway.
So this is the second type of storage gateway and there are two different configurations and I'm showing
both of them on the screen here.
So the top one is what we call cached volume mode and then we have stored volume mode.
Now, firstly, the key difference is this is block level.
So we're talking about Eskenazi.
We're not talking about SMB protocol or NFC protocol here.
This is attaching essentially a disk to your server using ICE Skuzzy.
So it's block level protocol.
Now in the cached volume mode, the entire data set is stored in S3 and a cache is stored locally.
So I've highlighted the key word here.
This is hopefully a way of remembering this more easily.
Just remember that we're talking about on premises here that the cache is on premises.
So in cached mode, the cache is on premises, everything else is in S3, whereas in stored volume mode
the data is stored on premises.
So the data is all stored here and then it's actually backed up as snapshots to S3.
So you're using S3 in this configuration as a backup, but your data is local.
Whereas in this case, you're using as free as a place to store your data and you just want to be out
of cash, some data for, you know, recently use data for low latency access.
So that's the volume gateway.
So Volume Gateway represents the family gateway that supports block based volumes.
It was previously referred to as Gateway.
Kashiram Gateway stored volumes.
I think that terminology was probably a bit more confusing.
I prefer the new terminology, says Block Storage by skuzzy based cache volume mode.
The entire data is stored on as free and a cache is accessed locally on sites in stored volume mode.
The entire data set is stored on site and asynchronously, backed up to as free as IPPs points in time
snapshots which are incremental and compressed as always.
Each volume gateway can support up to 32 volumes in cash mode, each volume can be up to 32 terabytes
for a maximum of a petabyte.
I don't think you need to know those specific numbers, but in case you do an installed mode, each
volume can be up to 16 terabytes for maximum 512 terabytes per data gateway.
Lastly, we then have the type gateway.
So in this case, it's about having your backup service on premise.
They might be running something like CommVault or netback up or whatever.
VM, you know, one of your one of the typical well-known backup software.
And you're backing up to a virtual type library sort of virtual type.
So Awassa Storage Gateway presents that to you.
The backup server can use one of many common backup applications.
Now, when you're actually writing data to the tapes of the tape is mounted, the data actually goes
to S3 standard.
And then when you ejects your tape, the data is then stored in S3 Glacier in glacier depth archive.
So very cost effectively.
Again, it's ice skuzzy.
So it's an ice cuzzi connection to the VTL library.
So this is used with popular backup software, each gateways pre configured with a media changer and
tape drives supported by net.
Back up, back up exactly same and so on.
You can select one of these different type sizes.
It can have up to fifteen hundred virtual types and a maximum aggregate capacity of one petabytes.
All data transfer between the gateway and storage gateways encrypted using SSL and all data stored by
type Gateway Innisfree is encrypted server side with Amazon S3 managed encryption keys SC S3.
Now those last two points about the encryption, they apply to all different types of gateway.
So it's always encrypted using SSL in transfer into Adewusi and it's always encrypted at rest with Amazon
S3 managed encryption keys.
So that's it for Storage Gateway.
Those are probably all the facts you need to know for the exam.
So just make sure you understand the different types of gateway and when they're going to be used.